Newsletters: add 239 (2023-02-22) (#1018)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2023-02-22-newsletter.md

    approach is building a mechanism that prevents receivers from
    keeping any overpayment that arrives.

- **Feedback requested on LN good neighbor scoring:** Carla Kirk-Cohen
  and Clara Shikhelman [posted][ckc-cs reputation] to the Lightning-Dev
  mailing list to request feedback on the recommend parameters for how a
  node judges whether its channel counterparties are a good source of
  forwarded payments.  They suggest several criteria to judge by and
  recommend default parameters for each criteria, but are seeking
  feedback about the choices.

    If a node determines that one of its peers is a good neighbor and
    that neighbor tags a forwarded payment as being endorsed by it, the
    node can give that payment access to more of its resources than it
    gives unqualified payments.  It may also endorse that payment when
    it forwards it to the next channel.  As described in a paper (see
    [Newsletter #226][news226 jam]), this is part of a proposal to
    mitigate [channel jamming attacks][topic channel jamming attacks].

- **Proposed BIP for Codex32 seed encryption scheme:** Russell O'Connor
  and Andrew Poelstra (using anagrams of their names) proposed a BIP for

>   a new scheme backing up and restoring [BIP32][] seeds.  Similar to

Reviewer: Missing link to the mailing list post.

Reviewer 2: https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2023-February/021469.html

{% comment %}<!-- https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/search?tab=votes&q=created%3a1m..%20is%3aanswer -->{% endcomment %}
{% assign bse = "https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/" %}

FIXME:bitschmidty

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

- [Core Lightning 23.02rc2][] is a release candidate for a new
  maintenance version of this popular LN implementation.

<!-- FIXME:harding

- BDK, rusqlite vuln

-->

## Notable code and documentation changes

*Notable changes this week in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo], [Core
Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo].*

- [Bitcoin Core #24149][] Signing support for Miniscript Descriptors FIXME:Xekyo

- [Bitcoin Core #25344][] updates the `bumpfee` and `psbtbumpfee` RPCs

>   for using [Replace By Fee][topic rbf] (RBF) to allow specifying a

Reviewer 3: Ah, I see what you mean, @Xekyo, without the "for" it would seem that those RPCs could use means _other than_ RBF to do something ... which is incorrect; they always / can only use RBF. I still think it's a little unclear; maybe something like
```suggestion
  , which use [Replace By Fee][topic rbf] (RBF), to allow the specification of a
```

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #239'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2023/02/22/
name: 2023-02-22-newsletter
slug: 2023-02-22-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter FIXME

## News

- **Draft BIP for OP_VAULT:** James O'Beirne [posted][obeirne op_vault] to the
  Bitcoin-Dev mailing list a link to a [draft BIP][bip op_vault] for the
  `OP_VAULT` opcode he previously proposed (see [Newsletter
  #234][news234 vault]).  He also announced that he'll be attempting to
  get the code merged into Bitcoin Inquisition, a project for testing
  major proposed changes to Bitcoin's consensus and network protocol
  rules.

- **LN quality of service flag:** Joost Jager [posted][jager qos] to the
  Lightning-Dev mailing list a proposal to allow nodes to signal that a
  channel is "highly available", indicating that its operator believes
  it'll be able to forward payments without failure.  If it does fail to
  forward a payment, the spender may choose not to use that node for
  future payments for a very long time---a much longer duration than the

>   spender may use for nodes which did not advertise high availability.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  spender may use for nodes that did not advertise high availability.
```

    recovery.  Previously described as boomerang payments (see
    [Newsletter #86][news86 boomerang]) and refundable ovepayments (see
    [Newsletter #192][news192 pp]), a spender would take their
    payment amount plus some extra money, split it into several
    [parts][topic multipath payments], and send the parts by a variety
    of routes.  When a sufficient number of parts has arrived to pay the
    invoice, the receiver claims just those parts and rejects any
    additional parts (with additional funds) that arrive later.  This
    requires spenders wanting fast payments have some additional funds
    in their channel but it works even some of the paths selected by the
    spender fail.  This reduces the need for spenders to be able to
    easily find highly available channels.  The challenge of this
    approach is building a mechanism that prevents receivers from
    keeping any overpayment that arrives.

- **Feedback requested on LN good neighbor scoring:** Carla Kirk-Cohen
  and Clara Shikhelman [posted][ckc-cs reputation] to the Lightning-Dev
  mailing list to request feedback on the recommend parameters for how a

>   node judges whether its channel counterparties are a good source of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  node should judge whether its channel counterparties are a good source of
```

  forwarded payments.  They suggest several criteria to judge by and

>   recommend default parameters for each criteria, but are seeking

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  recommend default parameters for each criterion but are seeking
```

  feedback about the choices.

    If a node determines that one of its peers is a good neighbor and
    that neighbor tags a forwarded payment as being endorsed by it, the
    node can give that payment access to more of its resources than it
    gives unqualified payments.  It may also endorse that payment when
    it forwards it to the next channel.  As described in a paper (see
    [Newsletter #226][news226 jam]), this is part of a proposal to
    mitigate [channel jamming attacks][topic channel jamming attacks].

- **Proposed BIP for Codex32 seed encryption scheme:** Russell O'Connor
  and Andrew Poelstra (using anagrams of their names) proposed a BIP for
  a new scheme backing up and restoring [BIP32][] seeds.  Similar to
  [SLIP39][], it optionally allows creating several shares using

>   [Shamir's Secret Sharing Scheme][] (SSSS) that requires a configurable

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  [Shamir's Secret Sharing Scheme][] (SSSS), which requires a configurable
```

    be used here), protecting the seed with a checksum, generating
    checksummed shares, verifying checksums, and recovering the seed.
    We found the idea of being able to manually verify checksums on
    backups of seeds or shares to be an especially powerful concept.
    The only current method users have to verify an individual seed
    backup is to enter it into a trusted computing device and see if it
    derives the expected public keys---but determining whether a device
    should be trusted is often not a trivial procedure.  Worse, in order
    to verify the integrity of existing SSSS shares (e.g. in SLIP39),
    the user must bring together each share they want to verify with enough
    other shares to reach the threshold and then enter them into a trusted
    computing device.  That means verifying share integrity negates a
    large benefit of having shares in the first place---the ability to
    keep information safe and secure by distributing it across multiple
    places or people.  With Codex32, users can verify the integrity of
    each share individually on a regular basis using just paper, pen,

>     some printed materials, and a few minutes of time.

Reviewer 3: That is very cool, and I like the enthusiasm of the preceding paragraph!

    Discussion on the mailing list mainly focused on the differences
    between Codex32 and SLIP39, which has been used in production for a

>     couple years now.  We recommend anyone interested in Codex32

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    couple of years now.  We recommend anyone interested in Codex32
```

    investigate its [website][codex32 website] or watch a
    [video][codex32 video] by one of its authors.  With the draft BIP,
    the authors hope to see wallets begin to add support for using
    Codex32-encoded seeds.

## Selected Q&A from Bitcoin Stack Exchange

> *[Bitcoin Stack Exchange][bitcoin.se] is one of the first places Optech

Reviewer 2: Sure @LarryRuane do you want to take a crack at the writeup?

> *[Bitcoin Stack Exchange][bitcoin.se] is one of the first places Optech

Reviewer 3: > Sure @LarryRuane do you want to take a crack at the writeup?

Pushed a separate commit, ad1e6119, feel free to drop or squash.

this monthly feature, we highlight some of the top-voted questions and
answers posted since our last update.*

{% comment %}<!-- https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/search?tab=votes&q=created%3a1m..%20is%3aanswer -->{% endcomment %}
{% assign bse = "https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/" %}

- [Why is witness data downloaded during IBD in prune mode?]({{bse}}117057)
  Pieter Wuille notes that for nodes running in [prune mode], "the witness data
  that is both (a) before the assumevalid point and (b) sufficiently buried to
  be past the prune point, there is indeed little to gain from having it". There
  is currently a [draft PR][Bitcoin Core #27050] open to address this and [a PR
  Review Club][pr review 27050] covering the proposed change.

- [Can Bitcoin's P2P network relay compressed data?]({{bse}}116999)
  Pieter Wuille links to two mailing list discussions about compression (one about
  [specialized compression for headers sync][] and one about [general LZO-based
  compression][]) and points out that Blockstream Satellite uses a custom
  transaction compression scheme.

- [How does one become a DNS seed for Bitcoin Core?]({{bse}}116931)

>   User Paro explains requirements for someone wanting to become a [DNS

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  User Paro explains the requirements for someone wanting to become a [DNS
```

- [Eclair #2595][] continues the project's work on adding support for
  [splicing][topic splicing], in this case with updates to the functions
  used for constructing transactions.

- [Eclair #2479][] adds support for paying [offers][topic offers].  A
  user receives an offer, tells Eclair to pay it, Eclair uses the offer
  to fetch an invoice from the receiver, verifies the invoice contains
  the expected parameters, and pays the invoice.

- [LND #5988][] adds a new optional probability estimator for finding
  payment paths.  It is partly based on previous pathfinding research
  (see [Newsletter #192][news192 pp]) with additional input from other
  approaches.

- [Rust Bitcoin #1636][] adds a `predict_weight()` function that accepts
  information about a transaction to construct and returns the expected
  weight of the transaction.  This is especially useful for fee
  management: to determine which inputs need to be added to a
  transaction, the amount of the fee needs to be known, but to determine
  the amount of the fee, the size of the transaction needs to be known.
  The function can provide a reasonable size estimate without actually

>   having to construct a candidate transaction.

Reviewer 4: Mh, they’re part of the Lucky 10,000 today. I just wrote them a few lines about using the _effective values_ of UTXOs during coin selection.

    easily find highly available channels.  The challenge of this
    approach is building a mechanism that prevents receivers from
    keeping any overpayment that arrives.

- **Feedback requested on LN good neighbor scoring:** Carla Kirk-Cohen
  and Clara Shikhelman [posted][ckc-cs reputation] to the Lightning-Dev
  mailing list to request feedback on the recommend parameters for how a
  node should judge whether its channel counterparties are a good source of
  forwarded payments.  They suggest several criteria to judge by and
  recommended default parameters for each criterion, but are seeking
  feedback about the choices made.

    If a node determines that one of its peers is a good neighbor and
    that neighbor tags a forwarded payment as being endorsed by it, the
    node can give that payment access to more of its resources than it
    gives unqualified payments.  The node may also endorse the payment when
    forwarding it to the next channel.  As described in a prior paper
    co-authored by Shikhelman (see
    [Newsletter #226][news226 jam]), this is part of a proposal to
    mitigate [channel jamming attacks][topic channel jamming attacks].

> - **Proposed BIP for Codex32 seed encryption scheme:** Russell O'Connor

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Proposed BIP for Codex32 seed encoding scheme:** Russell O'Connor
```

If I understand correctly, it does not encrypt anything.

Reviewer 2: Took this suggestion
